In this section I am discussing two more data collection or data structures that is weak map and Weak
said.
There are two related questions, though there are many other minor questions I'm discussing in this
topic.
So let's begin with weak map and weak said weak map and weak set are two more data structures provided
by E6.
Before we move ahead, let me inform you that you must know the concept of garbage collection.
To get a good understanding on the topics of this section, please check the garbage collection chapter
in the JavaScript language category before you move ahead with this section.
All right, so I will discuss a weak map.
First, let's assume a situation where you have a map like this.
Inside this map, you just want to put an object as a key.
Say, for example, like this now this key in case, which is an object at a later stage, if you set
it to null or for some reason this object gets free.
So internally it will be something like this where you have this object and the location of this value,
for example, name will be something like this.
So when the object is set to null, this value which is added as a key inside the map, will not be
removed even if the garbage collection is executed.
Actually, this value is a kind of value which has lost the parent reference.
This object is set to know so the reference is gone.
But still, because you have added it to map collection, when the garbage collection is executed,
this will not be removed because it is strongly held by map that is weak.
Map holds these keys weakly.
That is, these keys are held weekly.
So what happens if you set this as a weak map instead of map, then this particular value when it is
set to null and if the garbage collection is executed, this value will also be removed from the collection,
which doesn't happen with the map.
So this is the whole concept of holding the keys vertically or in a strong manner.
Map and set.
Hold the keys in a strong way, whereas weak map and weak set are basically holding it weekly.
That's the only difference we see while using weak map and Weak said.
Let's discuss about few points where the weak map is really different.
Number one, keys in the weak map are only objects.
You cannot have primitive keys like string number, etc., which we did with map number two.
Keys are weak or weakly held, and it means if the keys are garbage collector, so do the values.
Number three because of weak keys, weak map collection does not have iterable methods like keys, values
or entries.
And number four, weak collections do not hold values when the garbage is collected.
This is very handy.
With the dome there dom nodes are removed and garbage collector locations will be free as they are not
held strongly.
Just to have an example, let's see this score.
If I run this code.
As you can see, that it is giving the error because the key here, the pickle is a string and is not
an object.
So if I want to create a weak map, this is how I'm going to do it.
Like product is equal to new weak map.
Now I'm going to have an object.
And as you can see now I'm using product dot set and I'm writing the object itself and setting a value.
Also, as long as getting a value values concerned, certainly we can have the get method with the vehicle
map.
Also we do have has method as well, but all those iteration methods, we cannot have it week, map,
body when we said so let's try this, let's run the code and see what happens so we get the value here.
Weak site is also weakly held collection of objects and that two unique ones.
The behavior is the same as weak map values are removed on garbage collection if there is no direct
reference of the object.
Let's create one example with weak set.
I'll select product is equal to new weak set.
Let me try an object here.
Let's run the court.
As you can see that it displays the values here.
But this is a weak set.
Now, we cannot see that how a garbage collection happens and these values are lost because this process
is something which is executed behind the scene.
But you can get the idea, in which case you can use weak map.
These weak collections are also used when you want to make sure that there is no memory leakages because
whenever there is a garbage collection executed, the lost references value that is not reachable.
Values are always cleared.
They are cleared from the collection.
Also, they are removed from the collection also.
So in a way you are making sure by using the collections that that is no leakages.
Of course, if your code is written in a proper way, the references are properly removed in a proper
sequence.
Then anyway, you will not face any memory leakage issue.
And I have already mentioned in garbage collection discussion that the newer browsers are far better
when it comes to dealing with memory management.
There are two related questions to this topic.
The first question is the difference between map and weak map.
So we have already seen that these are the differences.
And the second question is the difference between set and week set.
So these are the points you can consider for the difference.